So, guys, you can see the content of the makefile that I have written, right, and you can see that
in this makefile, I have written down all the rules that we have discussed so far as it is, it's a
complete copy paste.
I have simply copy pasted all the rules that we have discussed in this makefile.
Right.
So you can see that in the first line just to specify the final product that you want to prepare.
In our case, we want to prepare the final product, which is executable.
So the name of the executable is simply XY.
Not that the target is not a keyword.
You can write anything that you want here.
For example, you can specify the final product column YUXI Right.
And after that I specify all the rules one by one.
Right now you must be thinking that in what order should you specify these rules?
So just to let you know that Makefile execution do not happen line by line, from top to bottom, rules
do not execute in the order they are specified in the Makefile.
In fact, rules execute as per the LDAP first search traversal of a dependency tree.
Now, if you recall that that first search algorithm to traverse a tree, then you will going to understand
that Thol Rules will going to execute in a makefile.
For the information.
This Dadfar search is also called post cover of a tree.
So the McDouall will do so in the very first line, the Magpul will come to know that we want to create
a final product whose name is EXI.
So the Magpul will search among the list of rules in this makefile and try to locate the rule whose
name is EXI.
So such a rule is this one.
That is line number two because here we have the rule name.
Right.
So the Makefile will now see that what are the components required in order to create the final product.
So the Magpul will know that it has to create mainboard or object file followed by Licalsi, not a static
liberi.
Right.
So as a result now the make Poolesville search in the list of rules and try to locate the rule which
is responsible to prepare mainboard or object file.
So such a rule is this one.
Right.
So the magpul will execute this rule because it is dependent on a source file and source file is already
an existing entity.
So the military will execute this rule first after this rule, execution is complete when the or object
file will be available.
Now, the next rule that the Magpul will find to locate is the rule which will prepare Licalsi, not
a static library.
So such a rule is this one that is in line before so many people will now see that on what component's
is the loop considered?
A static liability is dependent.
So clearly we know that in order to create a static library, we should have all the dependent object
files.
Right?
So the believe will now see that it has to prepare Matt or object file.
So now it will search in a list of rules which prepare strict math, not all as a final product.
So such a rule is this one, right?
So the second rule that will be executed will be this rule.
Similarly, McDouall will now try to locate a rule which prepares common, underscore my thought or
object file as a final product.
So such a rule is this one right?
In the similar way, the make tool will try to locate a rule which will prepare complex underscored
object file as a final product.
And such a rule is this one right?
So you can see the order of execution of the rule.
So you can see the order of execution of this rule really is not dependent in the order in which they
are specified in the makefile.
Now, after the execution of rule number four, all the components which are required to prepare Lipka
Astatke Liablity will be ready and available, right.
So the McDouall will now going to execute this rule number five and until execution of rule number five,
Licalsi Dot Astatke Liablity will be available.
Now, coming back to the mic pool had started from that is preparation of executable file.
So the components which are required to build final file are not only considered all right and after
the execution of all these five rules, both of these components are now available to the make tool.
Right.
So because all the components are available, therefore make Poolesville execute rule number six.
And after the execution of rule number six, the final executable is created.
So now let us run this makefile and verify whether.
This rules execute in the order in which we have discussed so now so now I'm in this directory and I
have this makefile, which we have just discussed.
So in order to run this makefile, you simply run the command make.
And you can see that the rules execute exactly in the order in which we had discussed.
And you can see that the final product that is created by this makefile is a final executable, right.
And you can see that just before the final executable was created, Licalsi Dot Astatke Liablity was
also created.
So this is how Makefile works.
So one thing to note here is that I have specified an additional rule here with name clean in Makefile.
We always have to specify a rule called clean.
This rule is used to actually delete everything that was built by this make file.
So you should clean up all the object files, all the libraries and all the executable in this rule
using Autum.
Come on.
So to execute this rule, you simply run, make and provide the ruling and it will run the clean rule.
In fact, you can specify any rule which you have, which you have mentioned in the Makefile, for example,
you want to create only the static liablity, so specify the rule name after the command.
And this will and this will build only Licalsi as a final product.
You can see that there is no executable created because we wanted to create only Licalsi dot a as a
final product by specifying.
The ruling came after the make come on.
Also note that in one directory there has to be only and only one make file.
You cannot create multiple make files.
Add in a single directory.
Right.
So here you cannot create another makefile and there has to be only one makefile in one directory.
So I hope I'm able to explain to you the core concept of writing Makefile and henceforward whenever
you write your programs, which involve multiple source files and linking with multiple libraries,
you are always advised to write make files in order to build your programs.